# Generated by Shlomil
# Please send your comments and corrections to <shlomister@gmail.com>
include common
map 0x040D


#
# Top row
#

slash 0x10 altgr
apostrophe 0x11 altgr
hebrew_qoph 0x12 altgr
hebrew_resh 0x13 altgr
hebrew_aleph 0x14 altgr
hebrew_tet 0x15 altgr
hebrew_waw 0x16 altgr
hebrew_finalnun 0x17 altgr
hebrew_finalmem 0x18 altgr
hebrew_pe 0x19 altgr

#
# Second row
#

hebrew_shin 0x1e altgr
hebrew_dalet 0x1f altgr
hebrew_gimel 0x20 altgr
hebrew_kaph 0x21 altgr
hebrew_ayin 0x22 altgr
hebrew_yod 0x23 altgr
hebrew_chet 0x24 altgr
hebrew_lamed 0x25 altgr
hebrew_finalkaph 0x26 altgr
hebrew_finalpe 0x27 altgr
comma 0x28 altgr

#
# Third row
#

hebrew_zain 0x2c altgr
hebrew_samech 0x2d altgr
hebrew_bet 0x2e altgr
hebrew_he 0x2f altgr
hebrew_nun 0x30 altgr
hebrew_mem 0x31 altgr
hebrew_zade 0x32 altgr

hebrew_taw 0x33 altgr
hebrew_finalzade 0x34 altgr
period 0x35 altgr


#
# en-us
#


exclam 0x02 shift
at 0x03 shift
numbersign 0x04 shift
dollar 0x05 shift
percent 0x06 shift
asciicircum 0x07 shift
ampersand 0x08 shift
asterisk 0x09 shift
parenleft 0x0a shift
parenright 0x0b shift
minus 0x0c
underscore 0x0c shift
equal 0x0d
plus 0x0d shift
bracketleft 0x1a
braceleft 0x1a shift
bracketright 0x1b
braceright 0x1b shift
semicolon 0x27
colon 0x27 shift
apostrophe 0x28
quotedbl 0x28 shift
grave 0x29
asciitilde 0x29 shift
backslash 0x2b
bar 0x2b shift
comma 0x33
less 0x33 shift
period 0x34
greater 0x34 shift
slash 0x35
question 0x35 shift
