# "Fail, buffer content is not well preserved when age > 0 (Fail)"
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_clear_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_clear_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_clear_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_clear_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_render_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_render_even_clear_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_render_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_render_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_render_even_render_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_clear_render_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_clear_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_clear_even_clear_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_clear_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_clear_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_clear_even_render_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_clear_even_render_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_clear_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_render_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_render_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_render_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_render_even_render_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.no_resize.odd_render_render_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_clear_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_clear_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_clear_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_clear_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_render_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_render_even_clear_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_render_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_render_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_render_even_render_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_clear_render_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_clear_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_clear_even_clear_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_clear_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_clear_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_clear_even_render_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_clear_even_render_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_clear_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_render_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_render_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_render_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_render_even_render_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_after_swap.odd_render_render_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_clear_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_clear_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_clear_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_clear_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_render_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_render_even_clear_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_render_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_render_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_render_even_render_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_clear_render_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_clear_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_clear_even_clear_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_clear_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_clear_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_clear_even_render_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_clear_even_render_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_clear_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_even_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_render_even_clear_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_render_even_clear,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_render_even_none,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_render_even_render_render,Fail
dEQP-EGL.functional.buffer_age.no_preserve.resize_before_swap.odd_render_render_even_render,Fail

dEQP-EGL.functional.query_context.get_current_context.rgba8888_window,Crash

wayland-dEQP-EGL.functional.resize.surface_size.grow,Fail
wayland-dEQP-EGL.functional.resize.surface_size.shrink,Fail
wayland-dEQP-EGL.functional.resize.surface_size.stretch_width,Fail
wayland-dEQP-EGL.functional.resize.surface_size.stretch_height,Fail

spec@egl_chromium_sync_control@conformance@eglGetSyncValuesCHROMIUM_ust_test,Fail
spec@egl_chromium_sync_control@conformance@eglGetSyncValuesCHROMIUM_msc_and_sbc_test,Fail
spec@egl_chromium_sync_control@conformance,Fail

glx@glx_arb_create_context_es2_profile@invalid opengl es version,Fail
glx@glx_arb_create_context_no_error@no error,Fail
glx@glx_arb_create_context_robustness@invalid reset notification strategy,Fail

# See also the EGL buffer age failures
glx@glx-buffer-age,Fail
glx@glx-buffer-age vblank_mode=0,Fail

glx@glx-swap-pixmap-bad,Fail

# ../src/gallium/drivers/zink/zink_kopper.c:859: zink_kopper_update: Assertion `pres->bind & PIPE_BIND_DISPLAY_TARGET' failed.
glx@glx-visuals-depth -pixmap,Crash
glx@glx-visuals-stencil -pixmap,Crash

spec@!opengl 1.0@gl-1.0-no-op-paths,Fail

spec@!opengl 1.0@gl-1.0-swapbuffers-behavior,Fail

spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-blit samples=16,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-blit samples=2,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-blit samples=6,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-blit samples=8,Fail

spec@!opengl 1.1@line-smooth-stipple,Fail

spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-facing,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset@config 0: Expected blue pixel in center,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset@config 1: Expected blue pixel in center,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset@config 2: Expected blue pixel in center,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset@config 2: Expected white pixel on right edge,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset@config 2: Expected white pixel on top edge,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset@config 5: Expected blue pixel in center,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset@config 6: Expected blue pixel in center,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset@config 6: Expected white pixel on right edge,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode-offset@config 6: Expected white pixel on top edge,Fail

# Frontend issue across multiple drivers.
spec@!opengl 1.0@rasterpos,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.0@rasterpos@glsl_vs_gs_linked,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.0@rasterpos@glsl_vs_tes_linked,Fail

spec@!opengl 1.1@linestipple@Line strip,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@linestipple@Line loop,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@linestipple@Factor 2x,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@linestipple@Factor 3x,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@linestipple,Fail

# polygon-mode: glPolygonMode(front=GL_LINE, back=GL_FILL), glCullMode(GL_NONE/GL_FALSE/GL_NO_ERROR) failed
# At position 0, found prim GL_FILL instead of GL_LINE
# polygon-mode: glPolygonMode(front=GL_POINT, back=GL_FILL), glCullMode(GL_NONE/GL_FALSE/GL_NO_ERROR) failed
# At position 1, found prim GL_POINT instead of GL_FILL
# (and more)
spec@!opengl 1.1@polygon-mode,Fail

spec@!opengl 2.0@vs-point_size-zero,Fail

spec@!opengl 2.1@pbo,Fail
spec@!opengl 2.1@pbo@test_polygon_stip,Fail

spec@!opengl 2.1@polygon-stipple-fs,Fail

spec@!opengl 3.0@clearbuffer-depth-cs-probe,Fail

spec@arb_arrays_of_arrays@execution@image_store@basic-imagestore-mixed-const-non-const-uniform-index,Fail
spec@arb_arrays_of_arrays@execution@image_store@basic-imagestore-mixed-const-non-const-uniform-index2,Fail
spec@arb_arrays_of_arrays@execution@image_store@basic-imagestore-non-const-uniform-index,Fail

spec@arb_framebuffer_object@fbo-blit-scaled-linear,Fail


spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@execution@arb_gpu_shader_fp64-tf-separate,Fail
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@execution@glsl-fs-loop-unroll-mul-fp64,Fail
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@uniform_buffers@fs-ubo-load.indirect.3,Fail

spec@arb_program_interface_query@arb_program_interface_query-getprogramresourceindex,Fail
spec@arb_program_interface_query@arb_program_interface_query-getprogramresourceindex@'vs_input2[1][0]' on GL_PROGRAM_INPUT,Fail

spec@arb_sample_locations@test,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 16- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16 all,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16 all@0.062500 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16 all@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16 all@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16 all@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16 all@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16 all@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16 all@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16 all@sample mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16@0.062500 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 16@sample mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all@sample mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2@sample mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@sample mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@sample mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@sample mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@sample mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@sample mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@noms partition,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@sample mask_in_one,Fail

spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@early-z,Fail
spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@early-z@occlusion query test/early-z pass,Fail
spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@host-mem-barrier,Fail
spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@host-mem-barrier@Transform feedback/WaW/one bit barrier test/16x16,Fail
spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@host-mem-barrier@Transform feedback/WaW/one bit barrier test/4x4,Fail
spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@host-mem-barrier@Transform feedback/WaW/one bit barrier test/64x64,Fail

spec@arb_shader_texture_lod@execution@arb_shader_texture_lod-texgradcube,Fail

# "../src/gallium/drivers/zink/zink_compiler.c:2071: assign_producer_var_io: Assertion `*reserved < MAX_VARYING' failed."
spec@arb_tessellation_shader@execution@variable-indexing@tes-both-input-array-float-index-rd,Crash
spec@arb_tessellation_shader@execution@variable-indexing@tes-both-input-array-vec2-index-rd,Crash
spec@arb_tessellation_shader@execution@variable-indexing@tes-both-input-array-vec3-index-rd,Crash
spec@arb_tessellation_shader@execution@variable-indexing@tes-both-input-array-vec4-index-rd,Crash

# "arb_texture_buffer_object-formats: ../src/gallium/drivers/zink/zink_context.c:807: create_bvci: Assertion `bvci.format' failed."
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb),Crash

spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb),Crash
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_ALPHA16,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_ALPHA16F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_ALPHA16I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_ALPHA16UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_ALPHA32F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_ALPHA32I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_ALPHA32UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_ALPHA8I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_ALPHA8UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA16F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA16I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA16UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA32F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA32I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA32UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA8I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA8UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16_ALPHA16,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE32F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE32I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE32UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE8_ALPHA8,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE8,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE8I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (fs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE8UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_ALPHA16,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_ALPHA16F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_ALPHA16I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_ALPHA16UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_ALPHA32F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_ALPHA32I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_ALPHA32UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_ALPHA8I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_ALPHA8UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA16F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA16I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA16UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA32F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA32I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA32UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA8I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE_ALPHA8UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16_ALPHA16,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE16UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE32F_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE32I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE32UI_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE8_ALPHA8,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE8,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE8I_EXT,Fail
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@formats (vs- arb)@GL_LUMINANCE8UI_EXT,Fail

spec@egl 1.4@eglterminate then unbind context,Fail

spec@egl_khr_gl_image@egl_khr_gl_renderbuffer_image-clear-shared-image gl_depth_component24,Fail

spec@egl_khr_surfaceless_context@viewport,Fail

spec@egl_mesa_configless_context@basic,Fail

spec@ext_external_objects@vk-image-overwrite,Fail
spec@ext_external_objects@vk-image-overwrite@RGB 10 A2 UINT optimal: Failed to initialize OpenGL FBO/RBO,Fail

# Fails across most drivers, but it's a silly test.
spec@ext_framebuffer_blit@fbo-blit-check-limits,Fail

spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@blit-mismatched-formats,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@clip-and-scissor-blit 16 msaa,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@enable-flag,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 16 centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 16 centroid-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 16 non-centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 16 non-centroid-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 2 centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 2 centroid-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 2 non-centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 2 non-centroid-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 4 centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 4 centroid-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 4 non-centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 4 non-centroid-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 6 centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 6 centroid-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 6 non-centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 6 non-centroid-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 8 centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 8 centroid-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 8 non-centroid-deriv-disabled,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@interpolation 8 non-centroid-disabled,Fail

spec@ext_packed_float@query-rgba-signed-components,Fail

spec@ext_transform_feedback@tessellation triangle_fan flat_first,Fail
spec@ext_transform_feedback@tessellation quad_strip wireframe,Fail
spec@ext_transform_feedback@tessellation quads wireframe,Fail

spec@glsl-1.50@execution@primitive-id-no-gs-quad-strip,Fail
spec@glsl-1.50@execution@primitive-id-no-gs-quads,Fail

spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@miptree-gl srgb-fp,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@miptree-gl srgb-fp@sRGB decode full precision,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@miptree-gles srgb-fp,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@miptree-gles srgb-fp@sRGB decode full precision,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@sliced-3d-miptree-gl srgb-fp,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@sliced-3d-miptree-gl srgb-fp@sRGB decode full precision,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@sliced-3d-miptree-gles srgb-fp,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@sliced-3d-miptree-gles srgb-fp@sRGB decode full precision,Fail

# since Debian 12 (bookworm) uprev
spec@arb_viewport_array@display-list,Fail
glx@glx-multi-window-single-context,Fail
spec@arb_timer_query@timestamp-get,Fail

# SIGKILL
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@execution@arb_gpu_shader_fp64-fs-getuniformdv,Crash
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@execution@arb_gpu_shader_fp64-gs-getuniformdv,Crash
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@execution@arb_gpu_shader_fp64-vs-getuniformdv,Crash

spec@arb_fragment_layer_viewport@layer-no-gs,Fail

# sparse_backing_alloc: Assertion `bo->u.sparse.num_backing_pages < DIV_ROUND_UP(bo->base.size, ZINK_SPARSE_BUFFER_PAGE_SIZE)' failed
KHR-GL46.sparse_texture_tests.SparseTextureCommitment,Crash

# Assertion `size % ZINK_SPARSE_BUFFER_PAGE_SIZE == 0 || offset + size == bo->base.size' failed.
spec@arb_sparse_buffer@basic,Crash
spec@arb_sparse_buffer@buffer-data,Crash
