dEQP-GLES2.functional.rasterization.limits.points,Fail

KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negx_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negx_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negx_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negx_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negx_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negx_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negx_texture2d,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negy_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negy_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negy_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negy_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negy_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negy_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negy_texture2d,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negz_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negz_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negz_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negz_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negz_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negz_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_negz_texture2d,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posx_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posx_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posx_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posx_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posx_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posx_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posx_texture2d,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posy_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posy_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posy_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posy_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posy_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posy_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posy_texture2d,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posz_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posz_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posz_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posz_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posz_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posz_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.cubemap_posz_texture2d,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.renderbuffer_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.renderbuffer_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.renderbuffer_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.renderbuffer_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.renderbuffer_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.renderbuffer_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.renderbuffer_texture2d,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture2d_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture2d_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture2d_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture2d_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture2d_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture2d_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture2d_texture2d,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture3d_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture3d_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture3d_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture3d_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture3d_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture3d_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture3d_texture2d,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture_array_cubemap_negx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture_array_cubemap_negy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture_array_cubemap_negz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture_array_cubemap_posx,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture_array_cubemap_posy,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture_array_cubemap_posz,Fail
KHR-GLES3.copy_tex_image_conversions.forbidden.texture_array_texture2d,Fail

KHR-GLES3.packed_pixels.pbo_rectangle.rgba,Fail
KHR-GLES3.packed_pixels.pbo_rectangle.rgba4,Fail
KHR-GLES3.packed_pixels.pbo_rectangle.rgba8,Fail
KHR-GLES3.packed_pixels.rectangle.rgba,Fail
KHR-GLES3.packed_pixels.rectangle.rgba4,Fail
KHR-GLES3.packed_pixels.rectangle.rgba8,Fail
KHR-GLES3.packed_pixels.varied_rectangle.rgba,Fail
KHR-GLES3.packed_pixels.varied_rectangle.rgba4,Fail
KHR-GLES3.packed_pixels.varied_rectangle.rgba8,Fail

KHR-GL43.shader_ballot_tests.ShaderBallotAvailability,Fail
KHR-GL43.shader_ballot_tests.ShaderBallotBitmasks,Fail
KHR-GL43.shader_ballot_tests.ShaderBallotFunctionBallot,Fail
KHR-GL43.shader_ballot_tests.ShaderBallotFunctionRead,Fail

shaders@glsl-uniform-interstage-limits@subdivide 5- statechanges,Fail
shaders@point-vertex-id gl_vertexid,Fail
shaders@point-vertex-id gl_vertexid divisor,Fail
shaders@point-vertex-id gl_vertexid gl_instanceid,Fail
shaders@point-vertex-id gl_vertexid gl_instanceid divisor,Fail

spec@!opengl 1.0@gl-1.0-swapbuffers-behavior,Fail

# https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/mesa/mesa/-/merge_requests/10641
spec@!opengl 1.0@rasterpos,Crash
spec@!opengl 1.0@rasterpos@glsl_vs_gs_linked,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.0@rasterpos@glsl_vs_tes_linked,Fail

spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-blit samples=2,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-blit samples=4,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-blit samples=6,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-blit samples=8,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-copypixels samples=2,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-copypixels samples=4,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-copypixels samples=6,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-copypixels samples=8,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-24_8 samples=2,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-24_8 samples=4,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-24_8 samples=6,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-24_8 samples=8,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-32f_24_8_rev samples=2,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-32f_24_8_rev samples=4,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-32f_24_8_rev samples=6,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-32f_24_8_rev samples=8,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-float-and-ushort samples=2,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-float-and-ushort samples=4,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-float-and-ushort samples=6,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@depthstencil-default_fb-readpixels-float-and-ushort samples=8,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.1@getteximage-formats,Fail
spec@!opengl 1.2@getteximage-targets 3d,Fail
spec@!opengl 3.1@vao-broken-attrib,Crash
spec@!opengl 3.2@gl-3.2-adj-prims cull-back pv-first,Fail
spec@!opengl 3.2@gl-3.2-adj-prims cull-front pv-first,Fail
spec@!opengl 3.2@gl-3.2-adj-prims line cull-back pv-first,Fail
spec@!opengl 3.2@gl-3.2-adj-prims line cull-front pv-first,Fail
spec@!opengl 3.2@gl-3.2-adj-prims pv-first,Fail
spec@!opengl es 3.0@gles-3.0-transform-feedback-uniform-buffer-object,Fail
spec@amd_performance_monitor@measure,Fail
spec@amd_performance_monitor@measure@basic measurement,Fail
spec@amd_performance_monitor@measure@change counters while active,Fail
spec@arb_direct_state_access@gettextureimage-formats,Fail
spec@arb_direct_state_access@gettextureimage-targets,Fail
spec@arb_framebuffer_srgb@blit renderbuffer linear_to_srgb upsample enabled render,Fail
spec@arb_framebuffer_srgb@blit texture linear_to_srgb upsample enabled render,Fail
spec@arb_gl_spirv@execution@ssbo@unsized-array,Fail
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@execution@built-in-functions@fs-frexp-dvec4-variable-index,Fail
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@execution@explicit-location-gs-fs-vs,Fail
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@uniform_buffers@fs-array-copy,Fail
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@uniform_buffers@gs-array-copy,Fail
spec@arb_gpu_shader_fp64@uniform_buffers@vs-array-copy,Fail
spec@arb_gpu_shader_int64@execution@indirect-array-two-accesses,Fail
spec@arb_multi_draw_indirect@arb_draw_elements_base_vertex-multidrawelements -indirect,Crash
spec@arb_multi_draw_indirect@gl-3.0-multidrawarrays-vertexid -indirect,Crash
spec@arb_occlusion_query@occlusion_query_meta_no_fragments,Fail
spec@arb_pixel_buffer_object@pbo-getteximage,Fail
spec@arb_program_interface_query@arb_program_interface_query-getprogramresourceindex,Fail
spec@arb_program_interface_query@arb_program_interface_query-getprogramresourceindex@'vs_input2[1][0]' on GL_PROGRAM_INPUT,Fail

spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@index-buffer-GL_COMPUTE_SHADER_INVOCATIONS,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@index-buffer-GL_GEOMETRY_SHADER_PRIMITIVES_EMITTED,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@index-buffer-GL_PRIMITIVES_GENERATED,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@index-buffer-GL_PRIMITIVES_SUBMITTED,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@index-buffer-GL_TESS_CONTROL_SHADER_PATCHES,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@index-buffer-GL_TESS_EVALUATION_SHADER_INVOCATIONS,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@index-buffer-GL_TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_PRIMITIVES_WRITTEN,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@index-buffer-GL_VERTICES_SUBMITTED,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@indirect-draw-GL_COMPUTE_SHADER_INVOCATIONS,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@indirect-draw-GL_GEOMETRY_SHADER_PRIMITIVES_EMITTED,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@indirect-draw-GL_PRIMITIVES_GENERATED,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@indirect-draw-GL_PRIMITIVES_SUBMITTED,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@indirect-draw-GL_TESS_CONTROL_SHADER_PATCHES,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@indirect-draw-GL_TESS_EVALUATION_SHADER_INVOCATIONS,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@indirect-draw-GL_TRANSFORM_FEEDBACK_PRIMITIVES_WRITTEN,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@indirect-draw-GL_VERTICES_SUBMITTED,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@coherency@indirect-draw-count-GL_TIMESTAMP,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@qbo,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@qbo@query-GL_ANY_SAMPLES_PASSED-ASYNC_CPU_READ_BEFORE-GL_UNSIGNED_INT64_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@qbo@query-GL_ANY_SAMPLES_PASSED-SYNC-GL_UNSIGNED_INT64_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@qbo@query-GL_ANY_SAMPLES_PASSED-SYNC_CPU_READ_AFTER_CACHE_TEST-GL_UNSIGNED_INT64_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@qbo@query-GL_ANY_SAMPLES_PASSED_CONSERVATIVE-ASYNC_CPU_READ_BEFORE-GL_UNSIGNED_INT64_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@qbo@query-GL_ANY_SAMPLES_PASSED_CONSERVATIVE-SYNC-GL_UNSIGNED_INT64_ARB,Fail
spec@arb_query_buffer_object@qbo@query-GL_ANY_SAMPLES_PASSED_CONSERVATIVE-SYNC_CPU_READ_AFTER_CACHE_TEST-GL_UNSIGNED_INT64_ARB,Fail

spec@arb_sample_locations@test,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 1- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 2- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 4- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 0- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 1- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 2- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 0- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 1- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 2- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 3- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 4- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 5- Grid: true,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: false,Fail
spec@arb_sample_locations@test@MSAA: 8- X: 3- Y: 6- Grid: true,Fail

spec@arb_sample_shading@arb_sample_shading-builtin-gl-sample-mask-mrt-alpha-to-coverage-combinations,Fail

spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2 all@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 2@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4 all@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 4@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6 all@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 6@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8 all@noms mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@0.125000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@0.250000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@0.500000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@1.000000 mask_in_one,Fail
spec@arb_sample_shading@samplemask 8@noms mask_in_one,Fail

spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@indexing,Fail
spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@indexing@Compute shader/dynamically uniform indexing test,Fail
spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@max-size,Fail
spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@max-size@image2DMS max size test/8x16384x8x1,Fail
spec@arb_shader_image_load_store@max-size@image2DMS max size test/8x8x16384x1,Fail

spec@arb_shader_texture_lod@execution@arb_shader_texture_lod-texgrad,Fail
spec@arb_shader_texture_lod@execution@arb_shader_texture_lod-texgradcube,Fail

# "../nouveau/pushbuf.c:730: nouveau_pushbuf_data: Assertion `kref' failed."
spec@arb_texture_buffer_object@render-no-bo,Crash

spec@arb_texture_rg@multisample-formats 6 gl_arb_texture_rg-int,Fail
spec@arb_timer_query@query gl_timestamp,Fail

spec@egl 1.4@eglterminate then unbind context,Fail
spec@egl 1.4@largest possible eglcreatepbuffersurface and then glclear,Timeout

spec@egl_khr_gl_colorspace@linear,Crash
spec@egl_khr_gl_image@egl_khr_gl_renderbuffer_image-clear-shared-image gl_depth_component24,Fail
spec@egl_khr_surfaceless_context@viewport,Fail
spec@egl_mesa_configless_context@basic,Fail

# "gr: DATA_ERROR 00000004 [INVALID_VALUE] ch 12 [007f8a7000 fbo-blit-check-[105816]] subc 3 class 902d mthd 08bc data ffffffff"
spec@ext_framebuffer_blit@fbo-blit-check-limits,Fail

spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy 6 depth_resolve depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy 6 depth_resolve small depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy 6 stencil_resolve depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy 6 stencil_resolve small depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy 8 depth_resolve depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy 8 depth_resolve small depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy 8 stencil_resolve depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy 8 stencil_resolve small depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy all_samples depth_resolve depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy all_samples depth_resolve small depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy all_samples stencil_resolve depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@accuracy all_samples stencil_resolve small depthstencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@no-color 2 depth single,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@no-color 2 depth-computed single,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@no-color 4 depth single,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@no-color 4 depth-computed single,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@no-color 6 depth single,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@no-color 6 depth-computed single,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@no-color 8 depth single,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@no-color 8 depth-computed single,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 2 color,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 2 color linear,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 2 depth,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 2 stencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 4 color,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 4 color linear,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 4 depth,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 4 stencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 6 color,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 6 color linear,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 6 depth,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 6 stencil,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 8 color,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 8 color linear,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 8 depth,Fail
spec@ext_framebuffer_multisample@upsample 8 stencil,Fail

spec@ext_image_dma_buf_import@ext_image_dma_buf_import-export,Fail
spec@ext_image_dma_buf_import@ext_image_dma_buf_import-sample_nv12,Fail
spec@ext_image_dma_buf_import@ext_image_dma_buf_import-sample_p010,Fail
spec@ext_image_dma_buf_import@ext_image_dma_buf_import-sample_p012,Fail
spec@ext_image_dma_buf_import@ext_image_dma_buf_import-sample_p016,Fail
spec@ext_image_dma_buf_import@ext_image_dma_buf_import-sample_uyvy,Fail
spec@ext_image_dma_buf_import@ext_image_dma_buf_import-sample_yuv420,Fail
spec@ext_image_dma_buf_import@ext_image_dma_buf_import-sample_yuyv,Fail
spec@ext_image_dma_buf_import@ext_image_dma_buf_import-sample_yvu420,Fail

spec@ext_texture_integer@multisample-formats 6 gl_ext_texture_integer,Fail
spec@ext_timer_query@time-elapsed,Fail
spec@ext_transform_feedback@generatemipmap prims_generated,Fail

spec@glsl-1.10@execution@samplers@glsl-fs-lots-of-tex,Fail

spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@miptree-gl srgb-fp,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@miptree-gl srgb-fp@sRGB decode full precision,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@miptree-gles srgb-fp,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@miptree-gles srgb-fp@sRGB decode full precision,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@sliced-3d-miptree-gl srgb-fp,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@sliced-3d-miptree-gl srgb-fp@sRGB decode full precision,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@sliced-3d-miptree-gles srgb-fp,Fail
spec@khr_texture_compression_astc@sliced-3d-miptree-gles srgb-fp@sRGB decode full precision,Fail

spec@nv_fill_rectangle@execution@gs-lines-ignore-fill-rect,Fail

spec@oes_egl_image_external_essl3@oes_egl_image_external_essl3,Fail
spec@oes_egl_image_external_essl3@oes_egl_image_external_essl3@oes_egl_image_external_essl3_imageLoad,Fail
spec@oes_egl_image_external_essl3@oes_egl_image_external_essl3@oes_egl_image_external_essl3_imageStore,Fail
